Source URL: https://www.partselect.com/Repair/Dishwasher/Not-Drying-Properly/

REPAIR > DISHWASHER > NOT DRYING PROPERLY
How to Fix A Dishwasher That Won't Dry Properly
Click a Part Below to Start Your Repair:
Heating Element High Limit Thermostat Rinse Aid Dispenser
About this repair:
Rated as EASY
198 repair stories
4 step by step videos
Want Mr. Appliance to fix that broken Dishwasher?
Schedule Service
Heating Element

A malfunctioning heating element may be the cause for dishes not drying. To test the heating element, first, make sure that power to your dishwasher is turned off, and then check for continuity with a multi-meter.

How to test the heating element in a dishwasher with a multimeter:

Unplug your dishwasher before attempting this test.
Your heating element will be found inside the dishwasher, attached to the bottom of the tub. It may be covered or uncovered. If it is covered, remove the cover.
In order to disconnect the heating element, you will need to remove the lower access panel. Remove the wires attached to the heating element’s terminals by carefully grasping the metal connector, do not pull on the wire itself.
To test the element, set your multimeter to Rx1 and touch each probe to a terminal. Your reading should be somewhere between zero and infinity, refer to your owner’s manual to determine what reading you should receive for your model. If it is exactly zero or infinity it is defective.
If your test produces a reading different from the manufacturer’s recommendation, you will need a replacement heating element.
Start Your Repair Here
View All Dishwasher Elements and Burners
SEARCH
Need help finding your model number?
How to test a heating element
How to replace a heating element
Back to Top
High Limit Thermostat

The high limit thermostat acts as a safety device that keeps the dishwasher from getting too hot. If the thermostat is malfunctioning, it could shut off the heat before your dishes are finished drying.

How to test a dishwasher high limit thermostat with a multimeter:

Ensure that you unplug your appliance before beginning this inspection.
Locate and remove the thermostat in order to test it for continuity. In most models, it can be found at the bottom of the dishwasher tub, behind the lower access panel.
Set your multimeter to Rx1 mode and touch the terminals with the probes. When your thermostat is at room temperature, you should receive a reading of infinity. If you place the thermostat next to a warm lamp, you should receive a reading of zero.
If your thermostat produces different results, you will need a replacement high limit thermostat.
Start Your Repair Here
View All Dishwasher Thermostats
SEARCH
Need help finding your model number?
Back to Top
Rinse Aid Dispenser

The rinse aid or the rinse aid dispensing cap could be the reason why your dishwasher is not fully drying your dishes. Without the rinse aid, the dishes will not shed water easily and will not dry properly.

How to inspect a dishwasher rinse aid dispenser:

This inspection is very simple; you will not need to disassemble your appliance or have any tools to complete this inspection.
Your rinse aid dispenser will be found on the inside of the door, remove the cap from the dispenser.
After verifying that there is rinse aid in the chamber, inspect the cap and chamber for any signs of discoloration, warping, or any other damage.
If you find any issues with your rinse aid dispenser while performing this inspection, you will need a replacement rinse aid dispenser.
Start Your Repair Here
View All Dishwasher Dispensers
SEARCH
Need help finding your model number?
Back to Top
More Repair Parts

Still not sure which part is broken? We can offer you custom troubleshooting help if you search with your model number.

Enter model or part number
SEARCH
Need help finding your model number?