Source URL: https://www.partselect.com/Repair/Dishwasher/Samsung/

REPAIR > SAMSUNG DISHWASHER
How To Repair A Broken Samsung Dishwasher
Repairing a Samsung Dishwasher can seem like a daunting task, but 80% of Samsung Dishwasher repairs are rated by our customers as "Easy” and on average, take less than 15 minutes to complete. To help get you started, we’ve broken down Samsung Dishwasher repairs by the most common symptoms, like leaking or noisy. Click on the symptom your Samsung Dishwasher is experiencing and we'll show you how to troubleshoot the problem, what parts are at fault and how to get it repaired quickly and easily.
Want Mr. Appliance to fix that broken Dishwasher?
Schedule Service
Common Broken Dishwasher Symptoms
Reported By
Noisy

Learn how to troubleshoot and repair a noisy Samsung Dishwasher by the type of noise it makes, from the rattle of a pump housing or motor bushings, to a worn washer arm bearing.

  
29% of customers
Leaking

Diagnose the reason for your leaking Samsung Dishwasher, from a worn pump and door seals, to a failed water inlet valve.

  
27% of customers
Will not start

Learn how to fix a Samsung Dishwasher that will not start, by checking a few key components, such as door latch switches, timers, electronic controls, motor relays and thermal fuses.

  
18% of customers
Door latch failure

Find out how to fix a Samsung Dishwasher door latch that isn't working properly by troubleshooting common repair parts like the door latch kit.

  
11% of customers
Not cleaning dishes properly

Determine why your Samsung Dishwasher will not clean properly by troubleshooting parts, like housing gaskets, spray arms, water deliver tubes and filters.

  
11% of customers
Not draining

Figure out why your Samsung Dishwasher will not drain by learning how to test a drain pump motor, timer and drain hose.

  
9% of customers
Will not fill with water

Diagnose why your Samsung Dishwasher will not fill with water by checking and testing a water inlet valve, float switch and door switch.

  
2% of customers
Will not dispense detergent

Learn how to repair a Samsung Dishwasher that will not dispense detergent by testing the bi-metal release, wax motor and timer.

  
2% of customers
Not drying dishes properly

Find out how to troubleshoot and repair a Samsung Dishwasher that will not properly dry dishes, by checking heating elements, high limit thermostats and rinse aid dispensers.

  
1% of customers
Troubleshooting Videos
 Troubleshooting Problems With Your Dishwasher Door Latch
 Troubleshooting Why the Dishwasher Won't Clean Dishes
 Troubleshooting Why the Dishwasher Won't Start
 Troubleshooting Why Your Dishwasher Is Leaking
Available Brands for Dishwasher Parts
Admiral Dishwasher Parts
Amana Dishwasher Parts
Caloric Dishwasher Parts
Dacor Dishwasher Parts
Electrolux Dishwasher Parts
Frigidaire Dishwasher Parts
General Electric Dishwasher Parts
Haier Dishwasher Parts
Hotpoint Dishwasher Parts
Jenn-Air Dishwasher Parts
Kenmore Dishwasher Parts
KitchenAid Dishwasher Parts
LG Dishwasher Parts
Magic Chef Dishwasher Parts
Maytag Dishwasher Parts
Roper Dishwasher Parts
Samsung Dishwasher Parts
Tappan Dishwasher Parts
Westinghouse Dishwasher Parts
Whirlpool Dishwasher Parts